---
layout: post
title:  "How good content can help your startup grow faster"
date:   2017-05-08 
categories: blog
metadescription: Make sure your content helps your startup grow faster. Far too many companies overlook content because they are focused on other things. But done badly content will cause you to lose the attention and trust fo your audience. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Done well, content can engage your users, answer their questions, and
> motivate them to take action. Done poorly, it will cause you to lose
> your audience’s attention and trust. Kristina Halvorson

Content is why people come to your website. They want to complete a
task, find information, be entertained, or a combination of all three.
If you make these goals even remotely difficult for them then they’ll
leave.

A customer doesn’t want to know everything about your company. She wants
the content she needs, when she needs it.

So, good content can help your company grow faster by getting the
attention of customers, answering their questions, and motivating them
to take specific actions.

In this chapter I’ll give you an overview of how you can make sure you
have good content rather than any old content.

## Get the basics sorted first

Let's begin by nailing down the fundamentals of your company. Sit down
with your team and discuss what the purpose of your product or service
is and what problem it solves. Even if you have been trading for three
years this can be a valuable exercise. Make sure all your stakeholders
are involved so you get everyone onboard now.

After this initial brain storming, you're ready to craft a core content
strategy statement. A core content strategy statement addresses issues
such as:

-   What content should we produce?
-   Who is that content for?
-   What’s the end result for us?

A tech startup that provides software for athletes in training might craft a statement like this one:

“Increase signups by producing detailed and technical content that will provide ambitious amateur athletes with answers to their training challenges.” 


## Decide what content to create or revise first

Once you have your core content strategy statement in place you need to
decide what content you're going to create, repackage or revise first.
Where on earth do you start, particularly considering your startup or
growing business has limited time and resources to spend on content?

Chuck out any plans for content based on what you think you should have,
or what your CEO thinks is a good idea, and instead start by analysing
whether your existing content is doing its job properly.

Use your key performance indicators (KPIs) to spot areas of friction.
Even if you only have a minimum viable product (MVP) your sales funnel
should still point to areas of friction where your content is letting
you down, either because it is not suitable, not very good or missing
entirely.

> Don't know what your business KPIs are? They are a way to evaluate the
> success of your business. Although your most obvious KPI might be
> number of products or subscriptions sold, you might also have other
> measurements that give a snapshot of the health of your business. For
> example, number of users, trial signups, people doing something useful
> on your website, newsletter signups, app downloads, and so on.


### Spot areas of friction with a KPI assessment

Start by writing down your headline KPIs. So, let's go back to the fitness tech startup. They are lucky enough to have a head of content who wants to do a great job. She's going to do a KPI assessment to see how best she can use her skills to grow their business. 

First off, she tracks their KPIs:

-   no of new visitors to the website
-   no. of people who signed up for a free trial
-   no. of people who created a product during the trial period
-   no. of people who signed up to a paid plan
-   average lifetime of customers
-   churn rate

They got 4,000 new users to their website last month, according to Google Analytics. It was 3,500 the month before that.

They convert around 7% to a free trial. Of those, only 0.8% go on to sign
up to a paid plan. In fact, it looks like only 2% of the free trial
people created a product i.e. began to see value in their product.
However, the average lifetime of the customers they do manage to convert
is respectable: 9 months last month and 9.3 months this month. This KPI
is heading in the right direction. Their churn rate is also hovering
around 5%. Not bad.

So, their content lead is fairly pleased with the number of new visitors to the website and with the conversion rate
to the free trial. She also can’t complain about the average lifetime of
their customers and their churn rate. It’s early days, but these are looking
okay. However, their ability to get people to move from a free plan to a
paid plan is quite frankly rubbish. She's worried, and asks herself:

-   Do our customers dislike our product? Is that why they don’t sign
    up?
-   If they like our product, why are they not paying for it?
-   Why are they not creating a product?

These are the answers she comes up with:

-   No, because our customers average lifetime and churn rate is good.
    Plus customer support gets lots of nice comments from happy
    customers.
-   Not sure. Pricing?
-   Hum, perhaps they don’t make this easy enough.

She's going to leave pricing for now because she just doesn't think that's the
problem. So she digs deeper and starts seeing that their onboarding process is
not doing its job properly. Customers seem confused about how to set up
and get value from their product to start with. She discovers that their support team have flagged this up as a problem for months. She makes a note to talk to the support team more often.

So, she now know what she needs to do to try and get more customers to
convert to a paid trial: rewrite the startups onboarding content so customers
find it easy to create a product. And customers who creates a product
are more likely to find value in the company and pay for the product.

Good job the startup didn't simply create a new product feature like their tech
lead suggested.

Or drop their prices as their sales person suggested.

And that blog the CEO is so keen for our head of content to create because everyone else has one? It will go on the back burner for now. It’s not a priority.


This is an extract from Chapter 1 of my book Content Strategy for Startups and Growing Businesses. To be the first to hear when the book ships – and receive a discount – sign up to my book newsletter list. I'll never spam you or pass on your details and you can unsubscribe at any time. 
